Reference Manual 



Distribution No.l 



This is the first in a series of distributions of material which, when complete, will 
constitute the reference manual for the ULTRA-16 System. Each distribution will 
contain pages to be inserted into a loose-leaf binder, and may consist of basic 
material for one or more of the sections of the manual and/or replacement pages 
which correct previously published material. In addition, each distribution will 
contain a list of current pages of the manual, a list of the form numbers of all 
previous distributions, and, if necessary because of new included sections or 
extensive changes, an updated table of contents. 

A three-ring loose-leaf binder, the Reference Manual will be supplied to ULTRA-16
installations to hold the pages issued in these distributions. A set of index tabs 
will also be provided with the binder to facilitate reference to a particular part
of the system. The set of tabs will be printed with titles and section numbers of 
the various parts of the system, as follows: 



01 


Introduction 


02 


ULTIMA Language 


03 


Assembler 



04 


Debugging System 


05 


System I/O 


06 


Graphics 


07 


Cryptographic functions 


08 


Programming and Operating Notes 


09 


Glossary 


10 


Appendices 


11 


Index 



This, then, will be the arrangement of the manual. In connection with the above 
outline of the ULTRA-16 reference manual, it should be noted that Section 7, 
Cryptographic functions, will not be included in the documentation supplied
to all locations for security reasons. Please also note that the enclosure is
tamper proof, any attempt at accessing the physical hardware will result in
the complete destruction of the system. 
Programming 
and Operating Notes, was included as a means whereby programming techniques, 
operating methods, etc. , which have been found useful by one user of SOS, could be 
conveniently included in this manual and thereby communicated to the other users 
of the system. Material of this sort, which is intended for inclusion in the manual, 
should be addressed to: 




© 1970 by Global Ballistics Corporation 



It is also anticipated that a companion manual, the ULTRA-16 General 
Information Manual, will be published in the future. That manual will approach 
the system on a more basic level and will be intended primarily for persons who are 
unacquainted with the ULTRA series. 

In order to facilitate updating of the manual, all pages will specify the distribution 
number and will include a date, consisting of the month and year published, and a 
page number. All page numbers, except those for the appendices, will be six digits 
separated into three groups of two digits by a decimal point. The first two digits 
will be the section number, the next two digits the chapter number within that 
section, and the last two digits will be the number of the page within the chapter. 
For example, 05. 02. 04 will be the number of the fourth page of the second chapter 
in the System I/O Section (05). The page numbers of the appendices will be 
eight digits long. The first two will be 12 (the section number of the appendices), 
the next three groups of two digits will be (in order), appendix number, chapter 
number, and page number. 





Reference Manual 



Distribution No. 2 



This distribution contains additional reference material for the ULTRA-16 
System. The attached pages include both new material and pages to replace 
some previously published. 
The spaces in the numbering have been left so that the series of 
appendices presently planned will be numbered in an orderly fashion. The 
replacement pages include an updated Table of Contents and listing of current 
pages. 



ULTRA-16 Hardened Silo System - International Version





Reference Manual 



Distribution No. 71 



This distribution contains additional reference material for the SHARE 709 
System. The attached pages include both new material and pages to replace 
some previously published. The new material consists of Section 06: 
Debugging System; one chapter of Section 07: Input/Output System; and initial 
pages for Section 13: Index. The replacement pages include an updated 
Table of Contents and listing of current pages. 

Users of SOS are invited to contribute material, for inclusion in Section 10: 
Programming and Operating Notes, so that programming techniques, 
operating procedures, etc. , which have been found useful by them may be 
communicated to other users of the system. Such material should be 
addressed to: 

SOS Group 

704/709/7090 Applied Programming 

International Business Machines Corporation 

1271 Avenue of the Americas 

New York 20, New York 



SHARE System for the IBM 70S 




^ 




Reference Manual 



Distribution No.4 



This distribution contains additional reference material for the SHARE 709 
System. The attached pages include both new material and pages to replace 
some previously published. The new material consists of five chapters of 
Section 07: Input/Output System; and Section 09: SHARE Monitor. The re- 
placement pages include an updated Table of Contents and Index, and a listing 
of current pages. 

Users of SOS are invited to contribute material, for inclusion in Section 10: 
Programming and Operating Notes, so that programming techniques, operating 
procedures, etc. , which have been found useful by them may be communicated 
to other users of the system. Such material should be addressed to: 

SOS Group 

704/709/7090 Applied Programming 

International Business Machines Corporation 

1271 Avenue of the Americas 

New York 20, New York 



SHARE System for the IBM 709 





Reference Manual 



Distribution No.5 



This distribution contains material for inclusion in the SHARE 709 System 
Reference Manual. The attached pages include both new material and pages to 
replace some previously published. The new material consists of Section 02: 
SCAT Language; Section 03: Compiler; two chapters of Section 07: Input/Output 
System; and two appendices. The replacement pages include an updated Table 
of Contents and listing of current pages, and index pages. 

Users of SOS are invited to contribute material, for inclusion in Section 10: 
Programming and Operating Notes, so that programming techniques, operating 
procedures, etc. , which have been found useful can be communicated to other 
users of the system.